I speak now to NOA Basher she's head of
partnership for Gaza at the aid agency
Global empowerment Mission she joins us
now from Cairo thank you so much uh for
joining the program NOA you worked
inside Gaza before the war and left I
believe when it began tell us a bit
about your personal story what it's been
like to watch the crisis in Gaza unfold
over the last five
months um thank you so much for having
me today um actually yes I was in Gaza
and I witnessed like one month of the
war it was terrible the situation there
is
catastrophic even working there is
really challenging for the humanitarian
actors it's not easy it's it's a
challenging in term of moving Aid in
term of movement in term of access of um
of all sides uh it's it's not easy it's
challenging yeah tell us a little bit
about your organization because that's
that's your job isn't it uh getting
getting Aid to Gaza through the Crossing
how how many trucks are you sending for
example how often and how many are
managing to get
through um actually Jim is committed to
support the supply chain capacity for
movement of of Aid to to Gaza and we've
been supporting uh different
International actors here in Cairo to
move a to Cairo we've been successful to
Transit um and move um many tracks more
than 7 tracks to Gaza including
different categories of Aid like food
medicine medical supplies wheat
flour um um medicines as I said um
blanket mattresses shelter items etc etc
and how successful have these trucks
been in getting through because we often
hear about trucks uh just lining up at
the border not being allowed through or
uh just not passing inspection
it is a challenging but we were
successful in moving all those tracks
into Gaza and we a team on the ground
there they are facilitating and
supporting the distribution safely to
civilians um doing the like door to-door
distribution to the T City distributions
so we are successful in doing the uh
movement of Aid through a Rafa border
into Gaza with a support of our team uh
there on the ground uh you've been
delivering Aid almost since the
beginning of the conflict tell us how
the needs of people in Gaza have changed
and grown we heard earlier from that do
from a doctor talking about increasingly
that uh doctors are dealing with
non-trauma related conditions like
disease and respiratory illnesses
suggesting that people are now not just
being killed from injuries they're dying
from other
means yeah in fact the the needs are
massive the needs are massive and no one
can deny it it's it's difficult and we
are trying always to keep like
continuous assessments of the needs on
the ground to support those PE people in
need um it's like um uh I mean the
humanitarian situation is catastrophic
the number of injured is increasing day
by day the number of people killed
increased day by day and we are trying
to support as much as we can in term of
meeting the needs uh of the um uh people
there okay new her Basher appreciate
your time head of partnership for girls
at the aid agency Global empowerment
Mission thank you